# 100 Days of Code

I am starting 100 days of code now on 2023-03-06 at the advice of Kim from the Techlahoma Slack. I am also completing OKCoders bootcamp at the same time so it'll be an interesting mix of python, c++, and web development languages I'm sure.

# Day 4 (2023-03-09)

Back on the [pet-feeder](https://github.com/LarryL1991/pet-feeder) grind today. I wasn't sure where to start so I just went down to the main function and started building out the program the way that I thought it should run. This took me down many rabbit holes. In my last version I had a .wait_for_balance() function that I used due to issues that I spoke about in "Day 2" of 100DaysOfCode. That is completely useless now that I have .refresh(). I found that my past self had also named a function .didResponseError() which is a frustrating function to use. I couldn't deal with the fact that a success would return False so I renamed it to .responseSuccess(). I use the .responseSuccess() a lot because back in the day I remember getting errors frequently. Lately I haven't received any errors luckily. Just before I ended my session I ran into an issue with .get_transfers(). Basically after I've cleared the list of transfers the db["result"]["in"] doesn't exist anymore. So I had to put in a quick check that there were results before printing them despite the fact that the response was successful. I also found during testing that there will be two types of ["result"]. One is called ["in"] and the other is called ["pool"]. The pool is obviously referring to transfers that are still in the mempool. My friend said that since the transfers are expected to be small that I can include mempool transactions so I'll have to figure out how to code that. Perhaps I can code it in a way that the user can decide to include mempool transactions or not. Last thing that I can think of is that I added return values for my functions that say "get". This seems obvious, but what I really need the function to do is to store the balance, or the transfers, etc. in the wallet class, but I keep catching myself using the function as if it will return something. Lots to go on this, but I'm happy with the progress I've made. Edit: On the morning of the 10th I noticed that my github entries from command line are coming through with "unknown" as the author. Pushing changes now to see if I've corrected this.

# Day 3 (2023-03-08)

Today I attended the OKCoders bootcamp remotely. The teacher covered many of the common ways that you can style elements in a website using attributes, elements, classes, etc. He covered some of the different ways that something could be styled like color, padding, margin, etc. Then the class was issued homework. We had to complete [Learn HTML Forms by Building a Registration Form](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-html-forms-by-building-a-registration-form/step-1). I just completed that before coming to write my daily progress. The work is easy, but it's good for me to get some reps in. Generally when I need to do something I'll just google it, but the freecodecamp course is pretty detailed about what and why I'm doing something. Not much else to report on for the day.

# Day 2 (2023-03-07)

I now remember why I put the [pet-feeder](https://github.com/LarryL1991/pet-feeder) on the backburner. I had a working product (Which is seen as comments at the very bottom of the first commit), however I used a wonky loop where I called get_transfers (Monero RPC) and waited for a response. I refactored the code before putting it on the back-burner. The new code is a lot easier to read and work with and I used a better method for updating the wallet called refresh(), but the .refresh() function of the wallet class takes FOREVER to complete. There is a difference in the way get_transfers() and refresh() work (in the Monero RPC) for some reason. get_transfers() seems to get called and the python code will continue despite no response received (async), however refresh() waits for a response before continuing with the python code (synchronous). It is very strange to me because I thought that the Monero RPC would be somewhat async no matter which RPC function I called, but refresh() seems to be synchronous. I found that there's an auto_refresh option in the Monero RPC. The wallet seemingly (to me) at random would refresh from from block 1, but this process is extremely time consuming and I wanted more control of exactly when it would refresh. I added a .auto_refresh function to the wallet class so that I could disable the auto_refresh. Despite the Monero RPC doc's claims that close() would save the wallet before closing it I have found through trial and error that that is not what happens so I added .save_wallet() which I call before closing. Now the entire blockchain doesn't have to be scanned every time the wallet is opened. I've made some good progress and I'm hopeful that I'll complete this project before the end of the week.

# Day 1 (2023-03-06)

I am finally getting back to a project that I was working on for a friend. I named it [pet-feeder](https://github.com/LarryL1991/pet-feeder) but it could really be used for a lot of applications. Today most of my time was honestly spent hiding sensitive details that I would normally just put into the code. For instance I now read the wallet path, public address, and private view key of my test Monero wallet from a "variables.txt" rather than just store that in the "feed.py" file. I added the variables.txt with the .gitignore file. I just recently started uploading some of my old projects to github and I learned about a lot of this stuff very recently. I deployed pet-feeder from the git command line which I think is pretty neat. As I write this I'm still waiting for my python script to read the balance of my wallet. Monero is funny because it takes a long time to read balances of an arbitrary wallet. I will continue work on pet-feeder tomorrow and hopefully make more progress than I did today.
